Getstarted (#242)
aspose-pdf/Aspose.PDF-Documentation: net/overview/_index.md

This component is written in managed C# and it allows developers to add PDF creation and manipulation functionality to their Microsoft .NET applications (WinForms, WPF, ASP.NET and .NET Compact Framework).

Using this library, you can implement rich capabilities for creating PDF files from scratch, or completely process existing PDF documents without installing Adobe Acrobat. The Aspose.PDF for .NET supports a **Wide Variety of Functions**.

### Document compression

Compressing PDF documents helps reduce their file size, making them easier to store, share, and transfer over networks. This is particularly important when dealing with large PDF files that contain high-resolution images or graphics. Smaller file sizes result in faster loading times, especially when accessing PDF documents online or via email attachments. Compressed PDFs load quicker, improving user experience and productivity.
**Aspose.PDF for .NET Library** provides different ways to reduce the size of your PDF, such as:

> - shrinking or Compressing All Images
> - removing Unused Objects
> - removing Unused Streams
> - linking Duplicate Streams
> - unembedding Fonts
> - removing or Flattening Annotations
> - removing Form Fields
> - flateDecode Compression
> - store Image in XImageCollection
> - convert a PDF from RGB colorspace to grayscale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- shrinking or compressing all images
- removing unused PDF objects
- removing unused PDF streams
- linking duplicate PDF streams
- unembedding fonts
- removing or flattening annotations
- removing AcroForm Fields
- using flateDecode compression
- store images in XImageCollection (reusable images)
- convert a PDF from RGB color space to grayscale
```

Splitting, concatenating, extracting, or inserting pages helps users manage PDF documents more effectively. Users can organize, rearrange, or combine pages to create new documents, improving document organization and accessibility.

### Transform pages to image

Converting PDF pages to images makes the content more accessible to users who may have difficulty viewing or interacting with PDF documents directly. Images can be easily viewed on various devices, including smartphones, tablets, and computers, without requiring specialized software.

Aspose.PDF allows to convert PDF to different image formats using C#. There are:

- TIFF
- BMP
- EMF
- JPG
- PNG
- GIF
- SVG

Aspose.PDF Library using DocumentDevice, or ImageDevice class for PDF to Image conversion.[Convert PDF to Different Image Formats](/pdf/net/convert-pdf-to-images-format/).

### Print PDF documents

Printing PDF documents allows users to create physical copies that can be easily transported and accessed without the need for electronic devices.

Aspose.PDF for .NET present different ways to print PDF files:

> - Printing PDF in .NET Framework
> - Printing PDF to an XPS Printer (Facades)
> - PDF to PostScript conversion, Checking Print Job Status
> - Printing PDF in .NET Core
> - Print PDF document in WPF application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Printing PDF using .NET Framework 4.x
- Printing PDF in .NET Core / .NET
- Printing PDF to an XPS Printer using Facades (console app)
- Printing PDF in WPF application
- various additional operations, like PDF to PostScript conversion, Checking Print Job Status etc.

```
